[MUSIC]
>> Kyle Simpson: Here's our
meaning of life running example,
written a little bit more clearly to
prove this point about asking questions.
Look at line 6.
I say x is equal to 1 + and
then I make an AJAX call.
And I yield while the AJAX
call is finishing, okay.
That AJAX call, getData,
returns me nothing right away.
But you'll notice that 1,000 milliseconds
after it runs, up on line two,
what do we call up on line two?
We call run to restart, to resume the
generator with the value that we got back.
So after 1000 milliseconds, our fake AJAX
gives us the response from our AJAX call.
And where does that value come back?
Right back to the yield
expression on line 6.
So we get the value 10 right back.
>> Kyle Simpson: So what we have here is
synchronous looking asynchronous code.
>> Kyle Simpson: We are able to block
locally inside of our generator as
if there is some magical
pause resume thing.
Because there is a pause resume now,
and it's the generator.
The plumbing of the generator
is able to pause, wait for
some other background thing to finish.
And then resume with the value
that we were waiting for.
So inside of our generator, line six
through eleven, that's our program logic.
That's the stuff we write over and
over and over again.
Lines one through three and line fifteen,
that's all plumbing that gets hidden
away in some library somewhere.
Our program logic,
our flow control looks like 6 through 11.
Now, if you mentally picture that
compared to twenty slides ago or
whatever, when we went
over the promise chain.
Promise chains are a form of
flow control that ends up
vertically orienting a bunch of
function calls into a promise chain.
And if you think even further back, we had
thunks and they were nested together and
callbacks, they had all
that kind of weirdness.
So here we have flow control again.
But what's so magic about this particular
flow control is that it looks synchronous.
Why is that so important?
Because that's the way our brains work.
We don't have to have any of that
overhead, that boilerplate of passing
things in as callbacks and
chaining things and returning.
All that stuff gets hidden away,
it's an implementation detail.
What we've done is taking
asynchronicity itself and
factored it out as an implementation
detail that we do not care about.
>> Kyle Simpson: I'm not really sure that
the full weight of what I just said is
actually coming across.
That's a huge deal.
Taking asynchronicity itself and
factoring it out so
that we don't have to worry about it.
>> Kyle Simpson: We write synchronous,
sequential, blocking looking code.
And we let the library
handle all of the ugly bits.
>> Speaker 2: Does it get the same
performance like if it the getData,
if it's not making an external call,
it's a function in itself and
it's making some huge operation?
Will it get the same performance
like if I do with a web worker or
something where I have
to do an asynchronous-.
>> Kyle Simpson: No, no, no, no, no, don't
get this confused with threads, okay.
If the behavior is happening
in your JavaScript program,
it is taking up the single event thread.
This is not the same thing as
messaging out to a web worker.
Could you message out to
a web worker on line two?
Absolutely.
But line 2 doesn't magically become like
a web worker just because you called it
from a generator.
There's still just one thread for
our JavaScript program to run.
The only magic that's different here
than anything else you've ever written
is the fact that line 6 through 11
get to magically locally block.
We never had that capability
syntactically before.
And now we have a syntactic
way of hiding away
all of the complexity of a state machine,
an asynchronous state machine.
So our code looks synchronous again.
And not only does our regular
code looks synchronous,
our error handling becomes
synchronous again.
How do we do synchronous error handling,
what do we use?
>> Kyle Simpson: Try, catch.
You can wrap try catch around line 6.
And if the AJAX under
the covers threw some error,
that error is gonna come right back in and
get caught as a synchronous error.
Because inside of the generator,
everything's back to normal, synchronous,
blocking semantics
including error handling.
So we get an asynchronous stack
that gets normalized back into
a synchronous stack
inside of our generator.
Yeah.
>> Speaker 2: Line 11,
console.log(answer)-
>> Speaker 2: So
the logging wait until
x plus 1 is computed?
>> Kyle Simpson: Line 11 doesn't
run until after line 8 is finished.
Line 7 doesn't run until
after line 6 is finished.
>> Kyle Simpson: Because
of that yield keyword.
>> Speaker 2: But if I have line 12,
that's console.log something else,
that would be printed.
>> Kyle Simpson: Then
it's gonna go right away.
We only pause at the yield keyword.
Everything else keeps running
until the next yield keyword.
Or until the end and then it finishes.
>> Speaker 3: Technically, line 8,
you don't need to do a yield there
because you're really not conceptually
fetching anything, right?
That's just computing something local.
>> Kyle Simpson: In all of our
running meaning of life example,
we always externalized all three calls.
>> Speaker 3: Okay.
>> Kyle Simpson: So
I'm doing the exact same thing.
We're pretending as if that string
needs to get sent off somewhere and
localized into our own alien language or
whatever.
And then it comes back to us, okay.
Yes?
>> Speaker 4: They're asking again,
on line 16, if they had put a run there,
Would that execute after
calling setTimeout?
>> Kyle Simpson: If on line
16 you put a run there,
it would resume the generator
that's waiting on
line 6 right away, not sending it a value.
And when the setTimeout
tried to run call run,
if the generator was not in a currently
paused state, that would create an error.
So you do not want to try to have lots of
different people trying to resume your
generator in lots of different places.
That's a really terrible idea.
The generator can only,
only one thing can ever be happening
in JavaScript at any given time.
So we don't have that problem.
But you don't want to take
that iterator.next and
have lots of different people calling it,
cuz you'll get out of sequence.
>> Kyle Simpson: I see a question in here
about using promises in the generator.
Hold on, we'll get there.
I promise, we're almost there.
>> Kyle Simpson: I just wanna let
a moment for this to sink in.
Cuz this is like that holy crap moment.
Like, whoa, I get to do synchronous
looking asynchronous programming?
>> Kyle Simpson: I saw some people asking
earlier what are some use cases of this.
The very first time I saw this was five or
six years ago before there were
generators in the standard.
Firefox put generators into their
implementation of JavaScript
engine about a decade ago.
And I was working at Firefox
on the developer tools team.
And every time we would add
a feature to a developer tool,
of course we needed a test case for
it, a test suite for some feature.
And everything you do in the Firefox
browser that you're doing in JavaScript,
it's all asynchronous.
There's no synchronous anything,
every single API is asynchronous.
Well, it gets really, really hard
to write asynchronous test cases.
When every single like draw border and
then wait for that to happen.
And the real problem is that none of those
calls, I mean, they're all asynchronous.
But none of them have events to
let you know that they finished.
So you literally are just like doing
setTimeout, I mean, it was crazy,
terrible to write test
cases in that environment.
Because it was asynchronicity without any
notification that the step had completed.
So you can imagine that my
test cases were horrible.
And then one day one of my
coworkers was like well,
why don't you just rewrite
all with a generator?
And I was like what?
And I started reading through and
I was like, my God.
I can write my test cases in
a synchronous fashion and
let all that asynchronicity crap, all
the timeouts and stuff, hide that away?
It changed everything.
>> Kyle Simpson: I saw that years before
we ever got a hope of that landing as part
of the JavaScript standard.
But I've been a big fan for
a long time because synchronous looking
async is that magical silver bullet.
And you don't get those very often
in programming language design.
Those magical silver bullets
that come out of nowhere.
>> Kyle Simpson: So when I said
earlier that promises are great and
promise chains give us some flow control.
But, and I even said that I
did the asynquence library and
gave me self sequences.
And then I said that actually,
I don't use those anymore, this is why.
Cuz I write a 100% of my asynchronous
code inside of generators.
If you have the option of writing
synchronous looking async,
why on earth would you ever want
to write a promise chain again?
I don't know, I can't come up with
a single case why a promise chain would
ever be what I wanna write,
when I have that option.
So I've gone back and completely
rechanged my whole way of thinking.
Once I got to understanding the power
of generators, I've gone back and
completely changed my way of thinking.
And now what I do is put
everything inside of a generator.